Boo Boograph - AI Photoshop Assistant (Deployment Ready)
Boo Boograph is an AI-powered image editing assistant. It can fetch image editing requests from Reddit's r/PhotoshopRequest, or you can upload your own image. Using Google's Gemini AI, it analyzes the request, generates an editing prompt, and then performs the image manipulation, providing a before-and-after view.

This version is configured for deployment on cloud platforms like AWS Elastic Beanstalk.

🚀 Core Features
Two Image Sources: Fetch posts from r/PhotoshopRequest or upload your own image.

AI-Powered Request Analysis: Uses Gemini 1.5 Flash to understand natural language requests and generate editing prompts.

Intelligent Image Editing: Leverages Gemini 1.5 Flash to perform the actual image edits.

Persistent User Authentication: Secure user registration and login system using JWT and a persistent SQLite database.

Referral System: Optionally restrict signups to users with a valid referral code.

Modern UI: A clean, responsive dashboard with Queue, Editor, and History tabs.

Local History: Saves your edited images in your browser's local storage.

Automated Server Cleanup: A cleanup_service.py script is provided to be run as a cron job to clear old images and prevent the server from running out of disk space.

🏗️ Architecture
Backend: FastAPI

Frontend: HTML, Tailwind CSS, Vanilla JavaScript

AI Models: Google Gemini 1.5 Flash

Reddit API: praw library

Database: SQLite for user authentication data.

Authentication: JWT-based authentication with python-jose and passlib.

📋 Prerequisites
Python 3.8+

An AWS Account

The AWS Elastic Beanstalk CLI (eb cli) installed and configured.

A Google AI API key.

(Optional) Reddit API credentials.

🛠️ Local Setup
Clone the repository and navigate into the directory.

Create and activate a virtual environment:

python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
# On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

Install dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Configure environment variables:
Create a file named .env by copying the example:

cp .env.example .env

Now, open the .env file and fill in your keys and settings. Set the ADMIN_EMAIL to your email address.

Initialize the Database:
Run the setup script to create the users.db file.

python database_setup.py

🚀 Running Locally
Start the development server with Uvicorn:

uvicorn main:app --reload

Open your browser to http://127.0.0.1:8000.

☁️ Deploying to AWS Elastic Beanstalk
This guide assumes you have the AWS EB CLI installed and configured.

Initialize Elastic Beanstalk:
In your project root, run:

eb init -p python-3.9 boo-boograph-app --region us-east-1

(Replace us-east-1 with your preferred AWS region).

Create the Environment:
This command will package your application, upload it to AWS, and create the necessary resources.

eb create boo-boograph-env

Set Environment Variables:
Your application needs the API keys and secrets from your .env file to run on AWS.

eb setenv $(cat .env | xargs)

This command reads your local .env file and securely sets the variables in your Elastic Beanstalk environment.

Make Scripts Executable:
The deployment hook needs to be executable. Run this command to set the correct permissions before deploying.

git update-index --chmod=+x .platform/hooks/postdeploy/01_run_db_setup.sh

Deploy Your Code:
After making any code changes, deploy them with:

eb deploy

The deployment hook will automatically run python database_setup.py on the server to ensure the database exists.

Open Your Application:
Once the deployment is complete, open your live application in the browser:

eb open

Setting up the Automated Cleanup Cron Job on AWS
The apscheduler has been removed from the main app. To clean up old images on your Elastic Beanstalk server, you need to set up a cron job.

SSH into your EC2 instance:
Find your instance in the AWS console or run eb ssh.

Edit the crontab:

crontab -e

Add the cleanup job:
Add the following line to the file. This will run the cleanup script every hour.

0 * * * * /usr/bin/python3 /var/app/current/cleanup_service.py

Save and exit the editor. The cron job is now active.